First, build an image from the supplied Dockerfile, and call the image "ansible-demo".
This will create an Ubunut VM that has SSH installed and configured, and has a user
created called "ansible" with a password of "password", and who is a member of the
sudo user group.

docker build -t ansible-demo .


Next, create two docker containers that are based on this image. Map the listening
ssh port of 22 to port 2221 and 2222 on the host machine running the containers.

docker run -d -p 2221:22 --name server1 ansible-demo
docker run -d -p 2222:22 --name server2 ansible-demo


On the machine that you want to issue commands from, install the ansible
package, as well as the sshpass package needed to use password authentication
for this demo. In a real scenario you would likely use SSH key based authentication.

sudo apt install ansible-core sshpass


Create a file for the inventory of machines that will be controlled by ansbile.
Save the below contents in a file called "inventory.ini"

[web]
server1 ansible_host=127.0.0.1 ansible_port=2221 ansible_user=ansible ansible_password=password
server2 ansible_host=127.0.0.1 ansible_port=2222 ansible_user=ansible ansible_password=password


Try to run a ping command against all hosts.

ansible all -i inventory.ini -m ping


Error about known hosts....connect once via ssh to each server:

ssh ansible@localhost -p 2221
ssh ansible@localhost -p 2222
# password: password


Now try ping command again, along with a few other commands:

ansible all -i inventory.ini -m ping
ansible all -i inventory.ini -a "hostname"
ansible all -i inventory.ini -a "uptime"
ansible all -i inventory.ini -m shell -a "ls -l /home"


Instead of running ad-hoc commands, run the setup playbook which will
install the nginx web server and start the service

ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini setup.yml

Error about not being able to elevate using sudo. Need to supply password:

ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini setup.yml --ask-become-pass

Run the installTools playbook to install some extra tools to help us validate
that the nginx web server was installed correctly:

ansible-playbook -i inventory.ini installTools.yml --ask-become-pass

Run curl on localhost to verify web server. We haven't opened up ports yet,
so can't connect from outside host at this point.

ansible all -i inventory.ini -a "curl localhost"
